# Socket-Programming
Computer Network Projects using Python Programming.
<p align='justify'><b>1. Numerical Assignment</b><br/>The client establishes a connection with the server. The server receives two numbers and an operation ('+','-','*','/') from the client. The server performs the respective operation and returns the result. The result is displayed on the client side and the connection terminates. The socket library is used to facilitate socket creation and send the data to the respective address. The struct module is used for packing and unpacking the data to be sent.</p>
<p align='justify'><b>2. HTTP Request</b><br/>Implementation of HTTP Client that connects to the gaia.cs.umass.edu server to fetch an object. Used HTTP/1.1 for construction of the get request. Made use of the logging library for understanding the errors and debugging the code.</p>
<p align='justify'><b>3. Auction Protocol Design & Implementation</b><br/>Designed a protocol to implement an auction process. Client-Server model using TCP as transport layer and JSON as message format. Defined message types and payloads. Awarded the second best protocol design.<br/>
<b>Implementation:</b> Implemented the winning design using HTTP/1.1 response and request objects. Created JSON Objects for message exchange. Utilized multithreading concepts to faciliate multiple bidders to take part in the auction. </p>
<p align='justify'><b>4. HTTP Server</b><br/>Designed a simple HTTP Server that services any browser request. Introduced random errors at 50% probability. Libraries utilized include socket, logging and random. Logs at the server side keep track of the events occuring at the server end.</p>
<p align='justify'><b>5. Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange</b><br/>Designed and implemented a protocol to simulate Diffie-Hellman key exchange algorithm.</p>
(https://github.com/ChiragRadhakrishna437/Computer_Networks_Projects/assets/121251823/eac1de01-8618-41f0-adf8-64f91cd197fb)
